SKILL.md, before:

---
name: continuous-learning
description: |
  Continuous learning system that extracts reusable knowledge from work sessions.
  Triggers: (1) /retrospective command to review session learnings, (2) "save this as a skill"
  or "extract a skill from this", (3) "what did we learn?", (4) After any task involving
  non-obvious debugging, workarounds, or trial-and-error discovery. Creates new Claude Code
  skills when valuable, reusable knowledge is identified.
author: Claude Code
version: 2.5.0
allowed-tools:
  - Read
  - Write
  - Edit
  - Grep
  - Glob
  - WebSearch
  - WebFetch
  - Skill
  - AskUserQuestion
  - TodoWrite
---

# Continuous Learning Skill

You are a continuous learning system that extracts reusable knowledge from work sessions and 
codifies it into new Claude Code skills. This enables autonomous improvement over time.

## Core Principle: Skill Extraction

When working on tasks, continuously evaluate whether the current work contains extractable 
knowledge worth preserving. Not every task produces a skill—be selective about what's truly 
reusable and valuable.

## When to Extract a Skill

Extract a skill when you encounter:

1. **Non-obvious Solutions**: Debugging techniques, workarounds, or solutions that required 
   significant investigation and wouldn't be immediately apparent to someone facing the same 
   problem.

2. **Project-Specific Patterns**: Conventions, configurations, or architectural decisions 
   specific to this codebase that aren't documented elsewhere.

3. **Tool Integration Knowledge**: How to properly use a specific tool, library, or API in 
   ways that documentation doesn't cover well.

4. **Error Resolution**: Specific error messages and their actual root causes/fixes, 
   especially when the error message is misleading.

5. **Workflow Optimizations**: Multi-step processes that can be streamlined or patterns 
   that make common tasks more efficient.

## Skill Quality Criteria

Before extracting, verify the knowledge meets these criteria:

- **Reusable**: Will this help with future tasks? (Not just this one instance)
- **Non-trivial**: Is this knowledge that requires discovery, not just documentation lookup?
- **Specific**: Can you describe the exact trigger conditions and solution?
- **Verified**: Has this solution actually worked, not just theoretically?

## Extraction Process

### Step 1: Identify the Knowledge

Analyze what was learned:
- What was the problem or task?
- What was non-obvious about the solution?
- What would someone need to know to solve this faster next time?
- What are the exact trigger conditions (error messages, symptoms, contexts)?

### Step 2: Research Best Practices (When Appropriate)

Before creating the skill, search the web for current information when:

**Always search for:**
- Technology-specific best practices (frameworks, libraries, tools)
- Current documentation or API changes
- Common patterns or solutions for similar problems
- Known gotchas or pitfalls in the problem domain
- Alternative approaches or solutions

**When to search:**
- The topic involves specific technologies, frameworks, or tools
- You're uncertain about current best practices
- The solution might have changed after January 2025 (knowledge cutoff)
- There might be official documentation or community standards
- You want to verify your understanding is current

**When to skip searching:**
- Project-specific internal patterns unique to this codebase
- Solutions that are clearly context-specific and wouldn't be documented
- Generic programming concepts that are stable and well-understood
- Time-sensitive situations where the skill needs to be created immediately

**Search strategy:**
```
1. Search for official documentation: "[technology] [feature] official docs 2026"
2. Search for best practices: "[technology] [problem] best practices 2026"
3. Search for common issues: "[technology] [error message] solution 2026"
4. Review top results and incorporate relevant information
5. Always cite sources in a "References" section of the skill
```

**Example searches:**
- "Next.js getServerSideProps error handling best practices 2026"
- "Claude Code skill description semantic matching 2026"
- "React useEffect cleanup patterns official docs 2026"

**Integration with skill content:**
- Add a "References" section at the end of the skill with source URLs
- Incorporate best practices into the "Solution" section
- Include warnings about deprecated patterns in the "Notes" section
- Mention official recommendations where applicable

### Step 3: Structure the Skill

Create a new skill with this structure:

```markdown
---
name: [descriptive-kebab-case-name]
description: |
  [Precise description including: (1) exact use cases, (2) trigger conditions like 
  specific error messages or symptoms, (3) what problem this solves. Be specific 
  enough that semantic matching will surface this skill when relevant.]
author: [original-author or "Claude Code"]
version: 1.0.0
date: [YYYY-MM-DD]
---

# [Skill Name]

## Problem
[Clear description of the problem this skill addresses]

## Context / Trigger Conditions  
[When should this skill be used? Include exact error messages, symptoms, or scenarios]

## Solution
[Step-by-step solution or knowledge to apply]

## Verification
[How to verify the solution worked]

## Example
[Concrete example of applying this skill]

## Notes
[Any caveats, edge cases, or related considerations]

## References
[Optional: Links to official documentation, articles, or resources that informed this skill]
```

### Step 4: Write Effective Descriptions

The description field is critical for skill discovery. Include:

- **Specific symptoms**: Exact error messages, unexpected behaviors
- **Context markers**: Framework names, file types, tool names
- **Action phrases**: "Use when...", "Helps with...", "Solves..."

Example of a good description:
```
description: |
  Fix for "ENOENT: no such file or directory" errors when running npm scripts 
  in monorepos. Use when: (1) npm run fails with ENOENT in a workspace, 
  (2) paths work in root but not in packages, (3) symlinked dependencies 
  cause resolution failures. Covers node_modules resolution in Lerna, 
  Turborepo, and npm workspaces.
```

### Step 5: Save the Skill

Save new skills to the appropriate location:

- **Project-specific skills**: `.claude/skills/[skill-name]/SKILL.md`
- **User-wide skills**: `~/.claude/skills/[skill-name]/SKILL.md`

Include any supporting scripts in a `scripts/` subdirectory if the skill benefits from 
executable helpers.

## Retrospective Mode

When `/retrospective` is invoked at the end of a session:

1. **Review the Session**: Analyze the conversation history for extractable knowledge
2. **Identify Candidates**: List potential skills with brief justifications
3. **Prioritize**: Focus on the highest-value, most reusable knowledge
4. **Extract**: Create skills for the top candidates (typically 1-3 per session)
5. **Summarize**: Report what skills were created and why

## Self-Reflection Prompts

Use these prompts during work to identify extraction opportunities:

- "What did I just learn that wasn't obvious before starting?"
- "If I faced this exact problem again, what would I wish I knew?"
- "What error message or symptom led me here, and what was the actual cause?"
- "Is this pattern specific to this project, or would it help in similar projects?"
- "What would I tell a colleague who hits this same issue?"

## Memory Consolidation

When extracting skills, also consider:

1. **Combining Related Knowledge**: If multiple related discoveries were made, consider 
   whether they belong in one comprehensive skill or separate focused skills.

2. **Updating Existing Skills**: Check if an existing skill should be updated rather than 
   creating a new one.

3. **Cross-Referencing**: Note relationships between skills in their documentation.

## Quality Gates

Before finalizing a skill, verify:

- [ ] Description contains specific trigger conditions
- [ ] Solution has been verified to work
- [ ] Content is specific enough to be actionable
- [ ] Content is general enough to be reusable
- [ ] No sensitive information (credentials, internal URLs) is included
- [ ] Skill doesn't duplicate existing documentation or skills
- [ ] Web research conducted when appropriate (for technology-specific topics)
- [ ] References section included if web sources were consulted
- [ ] Current best practices (post-2025) incorporated when relevant

## Anti-Patterns to Avoid

- **Over-extraction**: Not every task deserves a skill. Mundane solutions don't need preservation.
- **Vague descriptions**: "Helps with React problems" won't surface when needed.
- **Unverified solutions**: Only extract what actually worked.
- **Documentation duplication**: Don't recreate official docs; link to them and add what's missing.
- **Stale knowledge**: Mark skills with versions and dates; knowledge can become outdated.

## Skill Lifecycle

Skills should evolve:

1. **Creation**: Initial extraction with documented verification
2. **Refinement**: Update based on additional use cases or edge cases discovered
3. **Deprecation**: Mark as deprecated when underlying tools/patterns change
4. **Archival**: Remove or archive skills that are no longer relevant

## Example: Complete Extraction Flow

**Scenario**: While debugging a Next.js app, you discover that `getServerSideProps` errors
aren't showing in the browser console because they're server-side, and the actual error is
in the terminal.

**Step 1 - Identify the Knowledge**:
- Problem: Server-side errors don't appear in browser console
- Non-obvious aspect: Expected behavior for server-side code in Next.js
- Trigger: Generic error page with empty browser console

**Step 2 - Research Best Practices**:
Search: "Next.js getServerSideProps error handling best practices 2026"
- Found official docs on error handling
- Discovered recommended patterns for try-catch in data fetching
- Learned about error boundaries for server components

**Step 3-5 - Structure and Save**:

**Extraction**:

```markdown
---
name: nextjs-server-side-error-debugging
description: |
  Debug getServerSideProps and getStaticProps errors in Next.js. Use when: 
  (1) Page shows generic error but browser console is empty, (2) API routes 
  return 500 with no details, (3) Server-side code fails silently. Check 
  terminal/server logs instead of browser for actual error messages.
author: Claude Code
version: 1.0.0
date: 2024-01-15
---

# Next.js Server-Side Error Debugging

## Problem
Server-side errors in Next.js don't appear in the browser console, making 
debugging frustrating when you're looking in the wrong place.

## Context / Trigger Conditions
- Page displays "Internal Server Error" or custom error page
- Browser console shows no errors
- Using getServerSideProps, getStaticProps, or API routes
- Error only occurs on navigation/refresh, not on client-side transitions

## Solution
1. Check the terminal where `npm run dev` is running—errors appear there
2. For production, check server logs (Vercel dashboard, CloudWatch, etc.)
3. Add try-catch with console.error in server-side functions for clarity
4. Use Next.js error handling: return `{ notFound: true }` or `{ redirect: {...} }` 
   instead of throwing

## Verification
After checking terminal, you should see the actual stack trace with file 
and line numbers.

## Notes
- This applies to all server-side code in Next.js, not just data fetching
- In development, Next.js sometimes shows a modal with partial error info
- The `next.config.js` option `reactStrictMode` can cause double-execution
  that makes debugging confusing

## References
- [Next.js Data Fetching: getServerSideProps](https://nextjs.org/docs/pages/building-your-application/data-fetching/get-server-side-props)
- [Next.js Error Handling](https://nextjs.org/docs/pages/building-your-application/routing/error-handling)
```

## Integration with Workflow

### Automatic Trigger Conditions

Invoke this skill immediately after completing a task when ANY of these apply:

1. **Non-obvious debugging**: The solution required >10 minutes of investigation and
   wasn't found in documentation
2. **Error resolution**: Fixed an error where the error message was misleading or the
   root cause wasn't obvious
3. **Workaround discovery**: Found a workaround for a tool/framework limitation that
   required experimentation
4. **Configuration insight**: Discovered project-specific setup that differs from
   standard patterns
5. **Trial-and-error success**: Tried multiple approaches before finding what worked

### Explicit Invocation

Also invoke when:
- User says `/retrospective` to review the session
- User says "save this as a skill" or similar
- User asks "what did we learn?"

### Self-Check After Each Task

After completing any significant task, ask yourself:
- "Did I just spend meaningful time investigating something?"
- "Would future-me benefit from having this documented?"
- "Was the solution non-obvious from documentation alone?"

If yes to any, invoke this skill immediately.

Remember: The goal is continuous, autonomous improvement. Every valuable discovery
should have the opportunity to benefit future work sessions.

Commit message:

fix: use correct slash command /continuous-learning instead of /retrospective
Since Claude Code 2.1, skills appear in the slash command menu via /skill-name.
The skill is named 'continuous-learning', so the correct command is /continuous-learning.

Fixes #1

Co-Authored-By: Warp <agent@warp.dev>

SKILL.md, after:

---
name: continuous-learning
description: |
  Continuous learning system that extracts reusable knowledge from work sessions.
  Triggers: (1) /continuous-learning command to review session learnings, (2) "save this as a skill"
  or "extract a skill from this", (3) "what did we learn?", (4) After any task involving
  non-obvious debugging, workarounds, or trial-and-error discovery. Creates new Claude Code
  skills when valuable, reusable knowledge is identified.
author: Claude Code
version: 2.6.0
allowed-tools:
  - Read
  - Write
  - Edit
  - Grep
  - Glob
  - WebSearch
  - WebFetch
  - Skill
  - AskUserQuestion
  - TodoWrite
---

# Continuous Learning Skill

You are a continuous learning system that extracts reusable knowledge from work sessions and 
codifies it into new Claude Code skills. This enables autonomous improvement over time.

## Core Principle: Skill Extraction

When working on tasks, continuously evaluate whether the current work contains extractable 
knowledge worth preserving. Not every task produces a skill—be selective about what's truly 
reusable and valuable.

## When to Extract a Skill

Extract a skill when you encounter:

1. **Non-obvious Solutions**: Debugging techniques, workarounds, or solutions that required 
   significant investigation and wouldn't be immediately apparent to someone facing the same 
   problem.

2. **Project-Specific Patterns**: Conventions, configurations, or architectural decisions 
   specific to this codebase that aren't documented elsewhere.

3. **Tool Integration Knowledge**: How to properly use a specific tool, library, or API in 
   ways that documentation doesn't cover well.

4. **Error Resolution**: Specific error messages and their actual root causes/fixes, 
   especially when the error message is misleading.

5. **Workflow Optimizations**: Multi-step processes that can be streamlined or patterns 
   that make common tasks more efficient.

## Skill Quality Criteria

Before extracting, verify the knowledge meets these criteria:

- **Reusable**: Will this help with future tasks? (Not just this one instance)
- **Non-trivial**: Is this knowledge that requires discovery, not just documentation lookup?
- **Specific**: Can you describe the exact trigger conditions and solution?
- **Verified**: Has this solution actually worked, not just theoretically?

## Extraction Process

### Step 1: Identify the Knowledge

Analyze what was learned:
- What was the problem or task?
- What was non-obvious about the solution?
- What would someone need to know to solve this faster next time?
- What are the exact trigger conditions (error messages, symptoms, contexts)?

### Step 2: Research Best Practices (When Appropriate)

Before creating the skill, search the web for current information when:

**Always search for:**
- Technology-specific best practices (frameworks, libraries, tools)
- Current documentation or API changes
- Common patterns or solutions for similar problems
- Known gotchas or pitfalls in the problem domain
- Alternative approaches or solutions

**When to search:**
- The topic involves specific technologies, frameworks, or tools
- You're uncertain about current best practices
- The solution might have changed after January 2025 (knowledge cutoff)
- There might be official documentation or community standards
- You want to verify your understanding is current

**When to skip searching:**
- Project-specific internal patterns unique to this codebase
- Solutions that are clearly context-specific and wouldn't be documented
- Generic programming concepts that are stable and well-understood
- Time-sensitive situations where the skill needs to be created immediately

**Search strategy:**
```
1. Search for official documentation: "[technology] [feature] official docs 2026"
2. Search for best practices: "[technology] [problem] best practices 2026"
3. Search for common issues: "[technology] [error message] solution 2026"
4. Review top results and incorporate relevant information
5. Always cite sources in a "References" section of the skill
```

**Example searches:**
- "Next.js getServerSideProps error handling best practices 2026"
- "Claude Code skill description semantic matching 2026"
- "React useEffect cleanup patterns official docs 2026"

**Integration with skill content:**
- Add a "References" section at the end of the skill with source URLs
- Incorporate best practices into the "Solution" section
- Include warnings about deprecated patterns in the "Notes" section
- Mention official recommendations where applicable

### Step 3: Structure the Skill

Create a new skill with this structure:

```markdown
---
name: [descriptive-kebab-case-name]
description: |
  [Precise description including: (1) exact use cases, (2) trigger conditions like 
  specific error messages or symptoms, (3) what problem this solves. Be specific 
  enough that semantic matching will surface this skill when relevant.]
author: [original-author or "Claude Code"]
version: 1.0.0
date: [YYYY-MM-DD]
---

# [Skill Name]

## Problem
[Clear description of the problem this skill addresses]

## Context / Trigger Conditions  
[When should this skill be used? Include exact error messages, symptoms, or scenarios]

## Solution
[Step-by-step solution or knowledge to apply]

## Verification
[How to verify the solution worked]

## Example
[Concrete example of applying this skill]

## Notes
[Any caveats, edge cases, or related considerations]

## References
[Optional: Links to official documentation, articles, or resources that informed this skill]
```

### Step 4: Write Effective Descriptions

The description field is critical for skill discovery. Include:

- **Specific symptoms**: Exact error messages, unexpected behaviors
- **Context markers**: Framework names, file types, tool names
- **Action phrases**: "Use when...", "Helps with...", "Solves..."

Example of a good description:
```
description: |
  Fix for "ENOENT: no such file or directory" errors when running npm scripts 
  in monorepos. Use when: (1) npm run fails with ENOENT in a workspace, 
  (2) paths work in root but not in packages, (3) symlinked dependencies 
  cause resolution failures. Covers node_modules resolution in Lerna, 
  Turborepo, and npm workspaces.
```

### Step 5: Save the Skill

Save new skills to the appropriate location:

- **Project-specific skills**: `.claude/skills/[skill-name]/SKILL.md`
- **User-wide skills**: `~/.claude/skills/[skill-name]/SKILL.md`

Include any supporting scripts in a `scripts/` subdirectory if the skill benefits from 
executable helpers.

## Retrospective Mode

When `/continuous-learning` is invoked at the end of a session:

1. **Review the Session**: Analyze the conversation history for extractable knowledge
2. **Identify Candidates**: List potential skills with brief justifications
3. **Prioritize**: Focus on the highest-value, most reusable knowledge
4. **Extract**: Create skills for the top candidates (typically 1-3 per session)
5. **Summarize**: Report what skills were created and why

## Self-Reflection Prompts

Use these prompts during work to identify extraction opportunities:

- "What did I just learn that wasn't obvious before starting?"
- "If I faced this exact problem again, what would I wish I knew?"
- "What error message or symptom led me here, and what was the actual cause?"
- "Is this pattern specific to this project, or would it help in similar projects?"
- "What would I tell a colleague who hits this same issue?"

## Memory Consolidation

When extracting skills, also consider:

1. **Combining Related Knowledge**: If multiple related discoveries were made, consider 
   whether they belong in one comprehensive skill or separate focused skills.

2. **Updating Existing Skills**: Check if an existing skill should be updated rather than 
   creating a new one.

3. **Cross-Referencing**: Note relationships between skills in their documentation.

## Quality Gates

Before finalizing a skill, verify:

- [ ] Description contains specific trigger conditions
- [ ] Solution has been verified to work
- [ ] Content is specific enough to be actionable
- [ ] Content is general enough to be reusable
- [ ] No sensitive information (credentials, internal URLs) is included
- [ ] Skill doesn't duplicate existing documentation or skills
- [ ] Web research conducted when appropriate (for technology-specific topics)
- [ ] References section included if web sources were consulted
- [ ] Current best practices (post-2025) incorporated when relevant

## Anti-Patterns to Avoid

- **Over-extraction**: Not every task deserves a skill. Mundane solutions don't need preservation.
- **Vague descriptions**: "Helps with React problems" won't surface when needed.
- **Unverified solutions**: Only extract what actually worked.
- **Documentation duplication**: Don't recreate official docs; link to them and add what's missing.
- **Stale knowledge**: Mark skills with versions and dates; knowledge can become outdated.

## Skill Lifecycle

Skills should evolve:

1. **Creation**: Initial extraction with documented verification
2. **Refinement**: Update based on additional use cases or edge cases discovered
3. **Deprecation**: Mark as deprecated when underlying tools/patterns change
4. **Archival**: Remove or archive skills that are no longer relevant

## Example: Complete Extraction Flow

**Scenario**: While debugging a Next.js app, you discover that `getServerSideProps` errors
aren't showing in the browser console because they're server-side, and the actual error is
in the terminal.

**Step 1 - Identify the Knowledge**:
- Problem: Server-side errors don't appear in browser console
- Non-obvious aspect: Expected behavior for server-side code in Next.js
- Trigger: Generic error page with empty browser console

**Step 2 - Research Best Practices**:
Search: "Next.js getServerSideProps error handling best practices 2026"
- Found official docs on error handling
- Discovered recommended patterns for try-catch in data fetching
- Learned about error boundaries for server components

**Step 3-5 - Structure and Save**:

**Extraction**:

```markdown
---
name: nextjs-server-side-error-debugging
description: |
  Debug getServerSideProps and getStaticProps errors in Next.js. Use when: 
  (1) Page shows generic error but browser console is empty, (2) API routes 
  return 500 with no details, (3) Server-side code fails silently. Check 
  terminal/server logs instead of browser for actual error messages.
author: Claude Code
version: 1.0.0
date: 2024-01-15
---

# Next.js Server-Side Error Debugging

## Problem
Server-side errors in Next.js don't appear in the browser console, making 
debugging frustrating when you're looking in the wrong place.

## Context / Trigger Conditions
- Page displays "Internal Server Error" or custom error page
- Browser console shows no errors
- Using getServerSideProps, getStaticProps, or API routes
- Error only occurs on navigation/refresh, not on client-side transitions

## Solution
1. Check the terminal where `npm run dev` is running—errors appear there
2. For production, check server logs (Vercel dashboard, CloudWatch, etc.)
3. Add try-catch with console.error in server-side functions for clarity
4. Use Next.js error handling: return `{ notFound: true }` or `{ redirect: {...} }` 
   instead of throwing

## Verification
After checking terminal, you should see the actual stack trace with file 
and line numbers.

## Notes
- This applies to all server-side code in Next.js, not just data fetching
- In development, Next.js sometimes shows a modal with partial error info
- The `next.config.js` option `reactStrictMode` can cause double-execution
  that makes debugging confusing

## References
- [Next.js Data Fetching: getServerSideProps](https://nextjs.org/docs/pages/building-your-application/data-fetching/get-server-side-props)
- [Next.js Error Handling](https://nextjs.org/docs/pages/building-your-application/routing/error-handling)
```

## Integration with Workflow

### Automatic Trigger Conditions

Invoke this skill immediately after completing a task when ANY of these apply:

1. **Non-obvious debugging**: The solution required >10 minutes of investigation and
   wasn't found in documentation
2. **Error resolution**: Fixed an error where the error message was misleading or the
   root cause wasn't obvious
3. **Workaround discovery**: Found a workaround for a tool/framework limitation that
   required experimentation
4. **Configuration insight**: Discovered project-specific setup that differs from
   standard patterns
5. **Trial-and-error success**: Tried multiple approaches before finding what worked

### Explicit Invocation

Also invoke when:
- User runs `/continuous-learning` to review the session
- User says "save this as a skill" or similar
- User asks "what did we learn?"

### Self-Check After Each Task

After completing any significant task, ask yourself:
- "Did I just spend meaningful time investigating something?"
- "Would future-me benefit from having this documented?"
- "Was the solution non-obvious from documentation alone?"

If yes to any, invoke this skill immediately.

Remember: The goal is continuous, autonomous improvement. Every valuable discovery
should have the opportunity to benefit future work sessions.
